Hi everyone. In this lesson,
we will discuss how to
incorporate some of the
objectives and constraints we
discussed in module one with
the cubic spirals in
boundary conditions we
introduced in the last lesson to
create a path planning
optimization problem.
By solving this problem,
we'll be able to generate smooth,
feasible paths that satisfy
all of our constraints.
By the end of this video,
you should be able to:
Identify the boundary
conditions and
constraints required for
smooth path planning
using polynomial spirals,
approximate some of
the required constraints to
improve the tractability of
the optimization problem,
and know how to map the required
parameters in such a way
that the optimization problem
converges quickly to
a feasible solution.
Let's get started. If you
recall from the previous lesson,
our boundary conditions described
the absolute minimum
requirements for
a path being planned
between two points.
Essentially, they
require that for
a given starting position
heading and curvature,
our planned path ends at
a specific position heading
and curvature as well.
This will give us our first set
of constraints on
our optimization problem known as
boundary conditions
which we can see here.
Unfortunately, as we discussed in
the last lesson that cubic spiral
does not have
a closed form solution
for the position at
the end of the spiral.
To write our constraints in terms
of the parameters of the spiral,
we will need to use a numerical
integration technique.
Many exist, but we'll apply
Simpson's rule which we
briefly mentioned in
the previous lesson.
Let's look a bit more
closely at Simpson's rule.
Simpson's rule is
a commonly used numerical
integration technique
that is generally
more precise than
other simpler numerical methods.
This is because it
evaluates the integral of
the quadratic interpolation
of the given function
rather than the integral of
the linear interpolation as in
some methods such as
midpoint and trapezoidal rules.
Simpson's rule proceeds
by defining a number of
equally spaced divisions of
the integration domain
defined by n,
and then summing terms at
each division and boundary point.
For example, if we
choose n equal to four,
then we are splitting
the integration domain
into four equally sized segments,
and we therefore have five
points to include in our sum.
Each term in the sum is
the function evaluated at
the division point multiplied
by the appropriate coefficient.
In the interior of
the Simpson's rule equation,
we can see that we have
alternating coefficients
of four and two for
each term except for
the endpoint terms which
have a coefficient of one.
As one would expect,
as n increases, we get
a more accurate approximation
to our integral.
Let's apply this to
our specific planning problem.
If we take n equals eight
in the Simpson's rule
approximation,
our approximation will be
accurate enough for
the optimizations
we'll be performing without
being too computationally
expensive.
Since the heading
Theta is just the
integral of the cubic
spiral function,
we can explicitly define
a closed form solution
for it which is
a fourth order polynomial
which is shown here.
We can then use the values of
Theta at each division point in
a Simpson's rule approximation to
compute the x and y positions
of the cubic spiral.
The integrands to be
integrated for x and y are
cosine of Theta of s and sine
of theta of s respectively,
which are substituted in for f in
the Simpson's rule to form
the following expressions.
We now have a useful
approximation to
the X and Y position of
the spiral at any given arc
length point defined by
our arc length
parameter s. We will
denote the approximations
to x and y as
computed using Simpson's
rule as x sub s and
y sub s. Returning to
our boundary conditions,
we now have an approximation
for the path ending location
and we can write out
the boundary conditions in
terms of the known
parameters of the spiral.
We can now generate a spiral from
one point to another
that satisfies
the given boundary conditions
by iteratively optimizing
the parameters of the spiral as
well as its total arc length Sf.
Before we do that, however,
let's go over
the kinematic constraints
we would like to enforce.
Specifically for autonomous
driving path planning,
we're going to be focusing
on curvature constraints.
Cars have an absolute
minimum turning radius
and need to stay within
lateral acceleration limits to
maintain wheel traction and
ride comfort in the vehicle.
We'll discuss these constraints
in more detail in future lessons.
For now, let's assume
that our car can
achieve a minimum turning
radius of two meters.
This corresponds to
a maximum curvature
of 0.5 arc meters.
Now, it's quite
difficult to write out
this curvature constraint at
every single point
along the spiral.
However, because of the
polynomial nature of the spiral,
we only have to constrain
a few evenly spaced points.
Because the polynomial
function of
curvature is continuous
and well-behaved,
we're likely to generate
a spiral that satisfies
our curvature requirements when
performing the optimization.
For simplicity, let's
constrain the curvature
at the one-third and two-third
points of the curve.
The start and end
point curvatures were
already constrained in
the boundary conditions.
Once we've done this, we now have
our curvature constraints as
a function of the
parameters of the spiral,
and we have all of
our required constraints to
solve the optimization problem.
The final piece of the puzzle is
the actual objective function
we wish to minimize.
We want to encourage smoothness
and comfort along
our planned path.
One way to do so is to distribute
the absolute curvature
evenly along the path.
This can be done by minimizing
the bending energy of
our planned parametric curve.
The bending energy of
a curve is the integral of
its squared curvature along
the entire arc length
of the path.
Since we have
a polynomial function of
curvature describing
our cubic spiral,
the bending energy integral has
a closed form solution in
terms of the spiral's parameters.
In addition, its gradient
also has a closed form solution.
Both of these expressions
have many terms however so
it's best left to a symbolic
solver to create them.
The fact that
the objective function and
its gradient have closed
form solutions make it an
objective function that
is highly conducive to
nonlinear programming which we
will discuss in our next lesson.
Now that we have
our objective function,
we can put everything
together into our path
planning optimization
problems shown here.
For our purposes, we're going to
assume the initial boundary
conditions are zero,
which means that we are defining
our local planning problem in
the vehicle frame and results in
the simplified expressions
for the heading and
x and y approximations using
Simpson's rule we've
defined in this video.
This means that the initial
boundary value constraints can be
removed since they are already
accounted for in
our integral calculations.
Now we could very well
stop here and use
this as our path generating
optimization problem.
However, there is
a practical issue with how
this optimization problem
is set up that may slow it
down or cause it not to
converge at all when
solved using canonical
non-linear programming solvers.
Let's try to address this now.
The main issue we can
see here has to do with
the equality constraints of
the final position and heading.
Because equality constraints
must be satisfied exactly,
it is quite hard for
a numerical optimizer
to generate a feasible
solution from
an infeasible starting point
which is often what is given
to the optimizer for
an arbitrary problem instance.
To alleviate this issue,
it is common in optimization to
soft inequality constraints
to improve optimizer performance.
Soft constraints convert
a strict constraint
into a heavily penalized term
in the objective function.
By heavily penalized,
we mean that
the constraint penalty
term coefficient
should be at least an
order of magnitude
larger than the general
optimization objective.
Although this allows
the optimizer to
violate the boundary condition
equality constraints,
the optimizer will be strongly
encouraged to converge
to a solution that is as
close as possible to
the boundary conditions before
the bending energy
penalty term will be
large enough to
influence the optimizer.
We will also assume that
our initial curvature is
known and is usually set to
zero which corresponds to
a naught equal to zero.
This reduces the number of
optimization variables by one.
After softening
these constraints,
our new optimization problem
is as follows.
We have one further issue
we need to address before
defining the final version of
our optimization
to be implemented.
The final issue we
can address has to
do with the optimization
parameters.
While there is
more intuition to using
the cubic spiral coefficients
in our objective function,
we can actually reduce
the number of parameters
we are searching over
by taking the final
curvature boundary constraint
into consideration.
Let's redefine our cubic spiral
using a different set
of parameters
denoted by the vector p
where p has five elements.
First, we have p
naught through p3,
which denote the curvature
at the start,
one-third point and two-thirds
point and the endpoint.
The final term p4 is the
final arc length of the path.
Conveniently, we have
a closed form mapping between
the curvature parameter and
the spiral parameters
as shown here.
We can therefore
easily compute all
of our constraints and
objective terms as
a function of
these new p variables
instead of the coefficients
of the spiral.
Once the optimization is solved,
we can use the
equations here to map
the results back to
the spiral coefficients.
Since we already know
the initial and final curvature,
we can eliminate two
of the variables,
p naught and p3.
This leaves us with
only three variables in
our optimization
problem p1, p2, and p4.
By using the boundary conditions,
we've reduced
the dimensionality of
the optimization
problem which will
result in a significant
computational speedup.
The resulting final optimization
problem is as follows.
We've replaced the function
of the spiral parameters by
the equivalent functions after
remapping to our p parameters.
Note that the initial and
final path curvature p naught
and p3 are constants.
So the optimization
variables are now
only p1, p2, and p4.
This simplification was possible
due to the boundary conditions
of the curvature being known at
the start and
the end of the path.
Now that we've made
these modifications,
we can solve the path planning
problem efficiently and
with greatly reduced chance of
getting stuck in
poor local minima.
Let's summarize what we've
learned in this video.
First, we reviewed
the required boundary conditions
and constraints for this problem.
We then discussed how
to numerically compute
the n positions of a spiral
using Simpson's rule.
We then introduced the bending
energy objective to encourage
smoothness and formed
a generic spiral
optimization problem.
Finally, we re-map
the parameters of
the optimization
function to ensure
fast convergence to
a feasible solution.
Well, that was a lot of
new information to take in.
We hope that this lesson
has given you
an in-depth look at how to
perform smooth path planning.
This lesson has tied
together many of
the topics that we discussed
in modules one and four.
So if you felt like some of
this material was challenging,
feel free to review
those modules before working
through this lesson again.
In our next lesson,
we will be discussing
how to perform
optimization in Python in
order to prepare you to implement
a full path planner.
See you next time.